W-14792039 PDK final review (#504)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: pdk/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-pdk-apply-policies.adoc

== Before You Begin

* xref:policies-pdk-compile-policies.adoc[Compile your custom policy].

> * If applying you policy to Flex Gateway running in Local Mode, xref:policies-pdk-publish-policies.adoc[upload your custom policy to exchange].

Reviewer: I think there's a typo here: you => your

Also, were you referring here to Connected Mode?

+
* `<your_custom_policy>_definition.yaml`
* `<your_custom_policy>_implementation.yaml`
+
. Paste the two files in the `/etc/mulesoft/flex-gateway/conf.d/` Flex Gateway configuration directory.
+
. Create a policy binding configuration file with a `.yaml` file extension to bind the policy to an API instance:
+
* Give the file a custom name.
* Save the file in the Flex Gateway configuration directory `/etc/mulesoft/flex-gateway/conf.d/custom`. This directory can contain multiple configuration files.
. Copy and paste the following YAML snippet into the file, substituting your values where indicated::
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: gateway.mulesoft.com/v1alpha1
kind: PolicyBinding
metadata:
  name: <custom-policy-id>
spec:
  targetRef:
    kind: ApiInstance
    name: <your-api-instance>
  policyRef:
    kind: Extension
    name: <your_custom_policy>-implementation
  config:
    <custom-cofiguration-parameters>: "your parameter"
----
+
* `metadata.name`: Contains the custom policy instance name.
* `spec.targetRef.name`: Contains the name of the API instance on which to apply the custom policy. The API instance must already have been defined and applied.

> * `spec.policyRef.name`: Contains the custom policy implementation to apply.

Reviewer: Just a suggestion, to get the policy ref name here, we could also cite the helper command we're presenting here: 
https://dev-docs-internal.kqa.msap.io/beta-pdk-ga/pdk/latest/policies-pdk-integration-tests#configure-your-custom-policy

The `make show-policy-ref-name`

== Before You Begin

* xref:policies-pdk-compile-policies.adoc[Compile your custom policy].
* If applying your policy to Flex Gateway running in Connected Mode, xref:policies-pdk-publish-policies.adoc[upload your custom policy to exchange].

== Apply Policies in Connected Mode

When you apply a custom policy in Connected Mode, the configuration parameters and metadata defined in `gcl.yaml` appear in the API Manager UI.

To apply a custom policy in Connected Mode, see xref:gateway::policies-included-apply.adoc[Apply a Policy in Connected Mode]. 

=== Update Policies in Connected Mode

To update a custom policy in API Manager, you can either:

> * Delete the policy, and then re-apply the latest version of the policy. This automatically updates the policies binary file.

Reviewer: I would put this option as the second. And I would suggest that it is only for DEV policies (the policy versions uploaded with `make publish`). For policies applied on production APIs it is not desirable to, even for a short period, leave the API unprotected.

Actually... if we don't want to over explain, I would remove this alternative and simply instruct with the second.

To create the local declarative files:

. In the `target/wasm32-wasi/release` PDK directory, copy both of the following files:
+
* `<your_custom_policy>_definition.yaml`
* `<your_custom_policy>_implementation.yaml`
+
. Paste the two files in the `/etc/mulesoft/flex-gateway/conf.d/` Flex Gateway configuration directory.
+
. Create a policy binding configuration file with a `.yaml` file extension to bind the policy to an API instance:
+
* Give the file a custom name.
* Save the file in the Flex Gateway configuration directory `/etc/mulesoft/flex-gateway/conf.d/custom`. This directory can contain multiple configuration files.
. Copy and paste the following YAML snippet into the file, substituting your values where indicated:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: gateway.mulesoft.com/v1alpha1
kind: PolicyBinding
metadata:
  name: <custom-policy-id>
spec:
  targetRef:
    kind: ApiInstance
    name: <your-api-instance>
  policyRef:
    kind: Extension

>     name: <your_custom_policy>-implementation

Reviewer: This name won't be like this. It will be more like `<your_custom_policy>-v1-0-impl`

== Before You Begin

* xref:policies-pdk-compile-policies.adoc[Compile your custom policy].

> * If applying your policy to Flex Gateway running in Connected Mode, xref:policies-pdk-publish-policies.adoc[upload your custom policy to exchange].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If applying your custom policy to Flex Gateway running in Connected Mode, xref:policies-pdk-publish-policies.adoc[upload your custom policy to Exchange].
```

. From the left navigation menu, click *Policies*.
. Click the more options button (image:more-options-menu.png[1%,1%]) of the policy you want to update, and then click *Edit configuration*.
. Select the *latest* version for *Policy version* configuration parameter.
. Click *Save*.
. Click the more options button (image:more-options-menu.png[1%,1%]) of the policy you want to update, and then click *Check for implementation updates*.
+
For more information about implementation updates, see xref:exchange::manage-versions.adoc#update-policy-implementations[Update Policy Implementations].
. In the confirmation dialog box, click *Update all*.

[[apply-policies-in-local-mode]]
== Apply Policies in Local Mode

For Flex Gateway running in Local Mode, you apply custom policies using xref:gateway::flex-local-configuration-reference-guide.adoc[local declarative configuration files]. You specify the location of these configuration files when you first run Flex Gateway.

To create the local declarative files:

. In the `target/wasm32-wasi/release` PDK directory, copy both of the following files:
+
* `<your_custom_policy>_definition.yaml`
* `<your_custom_policy>_implementation.yaml`
+

> . Paste the two files in the `/etc/mulesoft/flex-gateway/conf.d/` Flex Gateway configuration directory.

Reviewer 2: This refers to the configuration directory in the production environment, separate from development environment? Does this need to be clear?

+
. Create a policy binding configuration file with a `.yaml` file extension to bind the policy to an API instance:
+
* Give the file a custom name.

> * Save the file in the Flex Gateway configuration directory `/etc/mulesoft/flex-gateway/conf.d/custom`. This directory can contain multiple configuration files.

Reviewer 2: I'm fairly certain this refers to the config directory in production environment, but I'm not 100% sure. Does it need to be made explicit?

. Copy and paste the following YAML snippet into the file, substituting your values where indicated:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: gateway.mulesoft.com/v1alpha1
kind: PolicyBinding
metadata:
  name: <custom-policy-id>
spec:
  targetRef:
    kind: ApiInstance
    name: <your-api-instance>
  policyRef:
    kind: Extension
    name: <your_custom_policy>-<version>-impl
  config:
    <custom-cofiguration-parameters>: "your parameter"
----
+
* `metadata.name`: The custom policy instance name.
* `spec.targetRef.name`: The name of the API instance of which to apply the custom policy. The API instance must already have been defined and applied.
* `spec.policyRef.name`: The custom policy implementation ID. To get the policy ID, run the `make show-policy-ref-name` command from the policy's root directory.
* `spec.config`: Your policy configuration data.
+

> . Save the file. The gateway automatically refreshes the configuration.

Reviewer 2: So the gateway instance doesn't need to be manually restarted? Does "automatically refreshes" mean the same thing as automatically restarts?

=== Update Policies in Local Mode

To update a custom policy for Flex Gateway running in Local Mode:

> * If you didn't edit the configuration parameters, replace your old `<your_custom_policy>_implementation.yaml` in you Flex Gateway configuration directory with the implementation file from your `target/wasm32-wasi/release` PDK directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If you did not edit the configuration parameters, replace your old `<your_custom_policy>_implementation.yaml` in your Flex Gateway configuration directory with the implementation file from your `target/wasm32-wasi/release` PDK directory.
```
